The Communist Party resembles something
like um the God of the Old Testament,
very generous sometimes, but then
randomly smite you.
>> Which society do you think is higher
agency?
>> China's major advantage in being a
technological superpower is that it can
just wait for the Americans to invent a
lot of stuff.
>> They're the prairie fire that uses the
American spark.
>> What should the US do that it's not
doing?
>> The future is made up of the a series of
short runs. If China is really able to
do super well in the next 5 years, 15
years, might be enough to subdue America
in pretty substantial ways. Why is there
no sense of crisis? Patrick, riddle me
this.
[Music]
>> What was the title of your book before
Breakneck? We had a series of titles and
the one that I thought that would make
the most sense was move fast and break
people. China's quest engineer the
future
>> publisher did not like that one
>> too much like Facebook they thought. So
um and they were right. Um and I think
breakneck is a nice snappy title. I love
that it mostly has a positive
connotation. We made the vaccines at
breakneck speed. We build the bridges at
breakneck speed. Yeah, look at that coil
of violence uh inside the title. I think
I think this one worked.
>> What about breaking people is relevant
though.
>> I think the part of China that I object
to the most is that for the most part
physical dynamism in building a lot of
new things, bridges, subways, highways,
new homes, hyperscalers, whatever else.
Some problems there, but mostly pretty
positive. The fundamental problem with
China is that they're not just physical
engineers. They're also social
engineers. And they treat society as if
it were just another building material.
And I object strongly to their practices
around ethnreligious minorities in Tibet
as well as Hingang. I object strongly to
the one child policy and I thought that
the zerocoid policy was also a disaster.
when they need to feel the need to run
rough shot over people. Whether that's
to build a giant dam like the three
gorgeous dam which displaced around a
million people or if it is to build a
really great train track or if it is to
stop overpopulation as they imagined it
throughout the 1980s. They barely
hesitate to do what are some brutal
pretty brutal measures.
>> Can you teach us the origins of that
aspect of their society? Yeah. So, China
is a country I call the engineering
state because they want to engineer the
physical environment, the economy, um
the people as well. I want to be just
pretty playful with this framework that
they're a country of engineers. Uh in
part, the roots are from the fact that
in recent years, if you take a look at
the most senior leadership, the entirety
of the standing committee of the pilot
bureau had degrees in engineering. I
also draw this back to slightly older
roots. Um, if we take a look at the
Chinese emperors way back in the past,
let's say 1500 years, two of China's
biggest projects include the Great Wall
uh as well as the Grand Canal, so a
fortification system uh in the first
case and then a big manage water
management uh system in the second case.
That is a country that has built a lot
of big projects in the past. uh a lot of
the emperors barely hesitated to
completely reorder a peasants's
relationship to her land. And throughout
Chinese history, they've really moved a
lot of people around to settle the
frontiers here or um defeat the nomadic
tribes over there. And so that's kind of
my playful framework for saying that
China is really ruled by this
engineering mindset that really wants to
build. Um they're often very
liberal-minded about governing society
as if uh people were just a series of
chess pieces to be moved around. Um and
that extends from the imperial times all
the way to the modern day.
>> What do you think the greatest aspect of
the US system is that you have the
hardest time imagining getting truly
adopted in China?
>> Pluralism.
I spent six years living in China. I
moved to China at the start of 2017 to
be a technology analyst at an economic
investment um research firm called
Goffcow Trigonomics.
At the time that I moved there at the
start of 2017, Trump had just taken
office. I remember watching these kind
of strange confirmation hearings for his
cabinet officials right when I left. And
I lived through this period when Trump
launched a trade war that quickly
morphed into a tech war. And I wrote a
lot of uh research notes about what
exactly was happening to companies like
Huawei and other sanctioned um entities.
Um and throughout this time I was open
to the idea. I didn't necessarily
believe it, but I was open to the idea
that we're at the start of something
like an Asian century in which China and
India were be going to become much
bigger powers. Um, by the time that I'd
left in 2023 when I uh returned to the
US to be a fellow not too far away from
here at the Yale Law School's Pai China
Center in Connecticut, I thought that
you know the experiences that I lived
through some incredible technological
successes along with worsening
repression along with a worsening
geopolitical environment for China. um
along with the centerpiece of zero covid
all three years of which I was there I
started being skeptical that China could
tolerate debate could really encourage
some measure of useful disscent uh
inside the official system that they
were going to be able to figure out
these persistent problems with
autocratic systems in terms of figuring
out succession planning for example
that they were capable of a great number
of successes. But because there is this
official voice that is meant to speak
over everyone else, because that
official voice is a little bit
idiosyncratic in terms of all of the
values that it really cares about. Some
degree of national power, some degree of
sovereignty, some thin skin about
anything that could be critical of the
regime. I don't feel like the Communist
Party has mastered some autocratic
formula in order to really build the
future because they cannot have anything
like debate, discussion, and a long-term
stable society. You have this great Andy
Grove quote in the book about the
difference between the mythical magical
moment of creation and innovation that
the US has has so dominated and this
ability to innovate on the factory floor
the scaling up that China has done so
well based on everything you just said
how do you relate to their ability to do
more innovation in the future there's
that famous stat of like only one noble
laureate has ever been from China or
something I think it's like that low say
a little bit about your your conclusions
around their current ability to innovate
and how that might change in the future.
>> Yeah. One of the things I want to try to
do in this book is to try to tackle this
idea of what is innovation. I think um
we here in the US and I as someone who
spents a lot of time in Silicon Valley
as a research fellow at the Hoover
Institution, I think there is this
mythical moment of invention in which
you have an amazing genius like Steve
Jobs hang out in a garage or or many
other geniuses hang out in garages and
some incredible product pops out of the
garage and you know a worldleading
product takes shape and I think that is
certainly an American strength. And I
think what the Chinese have been able to
do was to become a technological
superpower without
taking this Silicon Valley view of, you
know, we need to just be in nature, take
a lot of LSD, go into our garages, and
then Apple computer comes out. That's
not the way that they tend to do things.
The way they tend to do things is to
import uh a lot of managerial expertise
including from Apple computers work with
Apple's standards uh to put together and
assemble a lot of other components from
the US, Japan, Germany, whatever else
and then slowly iterate and learn a
million and one things on the shop floor
and then build a highly sophisticated
product that America is no longer really
able to build. Still most iPhones are
being built in China, increasing share
in India and Vietnam, but still most
iPhones in the world are being built in
China. And I think the Chinese method
for becoming a technological superpower
is to take this vast manufacturing
workforce. There's about 70 million
manufacturing workers in China versus
about 12 million in the US. the 70
million manufacturing workers in China
are working with some of these high-end
products that cannot be built um here in
the US. They're learning to solve three
new problems a day before breakfast. and
they um are really at the cutting edge
of figuring out how to do new things, do
it better, build up ecosystems of
suppliers, build up new ecosystems of
labor and just um you know generate all
of this process knowledge which can't
easily be written down which can't
easily be encoded in tools and equipment
and just use that to catapult into new
forms of products. So if you are a uh an
iPhone manufacturing worker um who was
there at the original assembly lines uh
in Shenzhen in 2008, you know, it's no
accident that Shenzhen is now the
capital of the hardware industry of the
world because that worker might be able
to start building a Huawei phone um in
the next year and a few years after that
uh maybe start a drone company. um
Shenzhen is also the center of the drone
business in the world and then maybe a
few years after that um start an
electric vehicle battery um business
which is also highly complex and
something that the US isn't building
very much of today and so I want to try
to dissolve this uh idea that innovation
is something that um is holding back
China too substantially um I think the
statistic about Nobel Prize winners only
a handful of Nobel prize winners in the
sciences have emerged from China. I
think that is a true statistic, but you
know, a lot of these Nobel prizes are
backwards looking by decades. We're
still giving out prizes for work in
Japan or the US in the 70s. Um, it is
pretty arbitrary. It's very rate
limited. Um, and what I want to propose
is that China's other major advantage in
being a technological superpower is that
it can just wait for the Americans to
invent a lot of
>> the spark
>> be the spark, right? And then they they
set the fire. They're the prairie fire
that uses the American spark. So I think
about something like solar photovoltaics
which was invented in New Jersey by Bell
Labs in 1954. The US mostly treated it
as a scientific project and not a giant
manufacturing industry. And now about
90% of the solar industry is in China.
Everything from the polysilicon
processing down to the final module
assembly. And so China can just wait for
a lot of these labs uh in the US and
Germany, Japan to figure out these new
sparks and then they set off the prairie
fire. And this is also one of these
crucial points in the classic Andy Grove
essay published in Bloomberg Business
Week in I believe 2010 that the US in my
words uh is really great at setting a
lot of ladders in place but its firms
are no longer really great at climbing
these ladders. It is really the Chinese
firms that are able to climb all of
these big technological ladders. If I
oversimplify this to the US is the
leader in zero to one and China is the
leader in one to n scale up in
manufacturing which would be harder for
for the other to get like would it be
harder for the US to get really good at
the scale up in manufacturing or harder
for China to get good at the 0ero to one
based on everything you know about both
what's more likely
>> I think that it is harder for the US um
the task is comparatively simpler for
China and China has already gotten
significantly better at a lot of these
scientific projects that used to be you
know only the preserve of American
universities and a few other places by
most metrics that we can identify
Chinese scientists are producing better
qualities of work not just quantity um
if we take a look at some of the most uh
the top 1% cited scientific papers um
Chinese researcher are producing uh an
increasing share of many of these uh top
papers we can see that China has
produced a a lot of uh really good
scientific projects. To say nothing of
um the moon missions, I think there's a
pretty strong sense now that China will
get to the moon um by the end of the
2020s and America might not be able to
get back to the moon, that it has
forgotten a lot of these skills. Um that
um China has invested a huge amount in
trying to improve its universities. we
can see that a lot of um American
researchers uh often American
researchers of Chinese descent have
decided to move to China because there's
better funding um there's more grad
students they can work with there's a
more stable environment for them to do
their science and conversely I think we
have not seen that the US is really
learning the hard parts of manufacturing
really well um I think there are some
successes uh we can see that the TSMC
fab in Arizona is actually doing fairly
well now according to the the latest
reporting. But if we take a look at many
of America's apex manufacturers,
companies like Boeing making aviation,
Intel making chips, Detroit and Tesla
making vehicles, mostly that's been
going downhill. Um the US isn't making a
huge number of iPhones. It's barely
making a huge number of um Apple's
desktop computers. And so I feel like
the Chinese are learning at a much
faster rate to patch up their
deficiencies than the Americans have.
>> What should the US do that it's not
doing? Like if you were the dictator of
the US economy and your goal was to make
it catch up in this regard as much as
possible because it seems like the
consensus is wouldn't it be great and
there's some people that are trying to
do this and in small ways so far if we
had manufacturing excellence back here
again and controlled vertically our
whole destiny. We have the spark
covered. Um, what would you do if you
were fully in control?
>> Yeah. Uh, I am against fully in control.
Uh, I want no dictator in China and so
therefore I renounce being dictator of
the US. I think what I am really
thinking about for this particular book
project as well as my broader writing
over the past 10 years on China is to be
less focused on policy prescriptions,
fixing statutes, fixing regulations.
What I really want to do is to inspire
Americans to treat technology as a
political project as well as an
aesthetic project. I think this is one
of the things that China really does
well is that it takes manufacturing
super seriously and the US has not taken
it super seriously since various points
in the 1980s. I'm fond of quoting a
former chairman of the economic
adviserss who said in the 1990s in this
glib quip which is quite funny um but
computer chips potato chips what's the
difference as if you know these things
could all be funible funibly measured in
um quantities of dollars and I think
there is something qualitatively
different between high-end
semiconductors as well as a spud so I
think that Um, various parts of the
American elite have decided that
manufacturing is not so important. We
don't need to manufacture socks and
t-shirts. Fine. We don't need to
manufacture televisions. And here's
where I uh start getting a little bit
nervous. We don't need to start
manufacturing um, you know, iPhones or
munitions or all sorts of other goods.
And that is where I get really nervous.
And what I really want is for Americans
to feel the importance of having a
robust manufacturing base, feel the need
to try to recover some of that and air
more on the side of doing more
manufacturing rather than less. And so
again, I I have no great policy
prescriptions. Um, I am critical of some
of the policies of the present
administration, but I think that if we
are all much more committed to just
building out and recognizing some of
these problems that we have and
recognizing China's trends, then I
think, you know, the conversation flows
much more naturally about what we need
to do and which statutes and regulations
we need to fix.
>> Can you imagine h that happening without
some sort of visceral crisis? like can
that happen slowly and organically?
In the 1950s, I think it was in 1957,
there was the Sputnik moment in which a
kind of
>> exactly what I'm thinking of
>> toy satellite uh emerged from the Soviet
Union and essentially over the last 15
years, the number of politicians
citing whatever new breakthrough uh as a
splitnick moment for the US. Um I I once
cataloged this. I I found a half dozen
instances of major figures that included
Barack Obama to various other uh US
senators have cited this thing or that
as a Sputnik moment. I think Obama cited
uh highspeed rail in China as the
Sputnik moment. Some other senators
cited um Huawei's lead in 5G um
telecommunications equipment. Um just
two weeks ago there was a um Harvard
professor uh Steven Greenblat who wrote
in the New York Times Chinese
universities are really rising in global
rankings in part because of they're
doing better and better science that if
that's not a Sputnik moment I I am
quoting him essentially if that's not a
Splutnick moment I don't know what will
be and what I'm actually kind of afraid
of is that the more we use this term
Sputnik moment um which Americans are
using quite often and the less that it
is actually accompanied by real action
as the original moment in the 1950s was
the more that this term is kind of just
bandied about
>> boy who cried wolf
>> glibly you know um crying wolf about
this or that and actually there's no
fundamental action and what I'm often
really surprised about is just the lack
of real sense of crisis with a lot of
Americans with um you know the rusting
manufacturing base we're uh chatting
together in New York city. The Second
Avenue uh subway extension cost about $2
billion per mile. Almost everything in
the US is uh in terms of major
infrastructure, especially in big
cities, is ends up being over budget and
over time. Voters originally approved
the California highspeed rail by
referendum in 2008. I think they said
this must be finished by 2020. Right
now, we're in 2025. How many people have
actually ridden California highspeed
rail? the answer is zero because the
first segment is supposed to start
operating between 2030 and 2033 between
Bakersfield and Merrced and so you know
there's just these rampant failures all
the time in America and somehow I don't
really see many heads rolling um from
the heads of agencies or you know US
senators stepping down because they
failed at a transportation project is
something that is more common in Asia um
and so why why is there no sense of
crisis Patrick riddle me this
>> I remember this idea from the
hundred-year marathon on um the book
about the you know very long-term
planning of China to be resurgent and
then be dominant that uh maybe it's
quite deliberate that there is some line
that operated below which no one notices
the compounding that's happening in
China and with no spikiness above the
line to their progress just more smooth
and steady it it you know all of a
sudden we're going to wake up in 2050
and be like oh my god what happened how
did this happen and it's been happening
for you know forever for 100 years and
so what do you think of that that it's
just been deliberately quiet and below
the radar. And that's a big reason that
Americans haven't noticed. They don't go
to China. They don't visit. They don't
see it. They don't go around Shenzhen.
They don't go anywhere. Uh and so it's
just completely invisible to them and
and they're used to the status quo here.
>> Well, it sounds like a problem with
Americans um rather than with the
Chinese. I mean, they are really happy
to broadcast all of their achievements.
They have these amazing trains they love
to highlight. They're constantly
inviting Americans to go come check out
these glimmering cities. um China's
infrastructure gleams and you only have
to go over there to take a look at it
and there are plenty of people uh
ringing the alarm but it does feel a
little bit like boy who cries wolf. So
um I think this is it's not just um you
know the sense of crisis with China
there's also the sense of crisis in
California and New York that even people
here kind of just shrug after such
obscene cost overruns.
>> Yeah. Um, what are the most what are the
highest similarities between the two
peoples between Americans and Chinese?
Obviously, you've talked about some of
the differences, but what are what's
most similar between the two countries?
>> Um, a lot. And what I really enjoy is um
I I start my book in my very first
paragraph to say that Chinese and
Americans are more alike than any other
people. And I think this is um something
of among people who have spent any time
in China. They're always um
congratulating me and saying, "Yeah,
that's exactly right. Chinese and
Americans are so alike." So, how are
they alike? Uh well, they're the two
great um fs of entrepreneurial dynamism
in the world. It is uh Shenzhen and
Silicon Valley that are inventing the
future and not so much Europe and Japan
uh any longer. So there's a kind of a
hustle energy. There's a hastiness.
There's a sense of taking shortcuts. And
a lot of that manifests in, you know,
some things that are that don't work
very well, but um, you know, you just
need a lot of hustle and dynamism that
you see among these people. Both
countries have a sense of the
technological sublime. So there's these
awe of grand projects like the Golden
Gate Bridge or Manhattan or Apollo that
the Chinese are um and that that the
Americans have and the Chinese also
share and both countries are filled with
elites and masses that really believe
themselves to be really important great
powers in the world. And if other
countries don't get in line, whether
that is uh the Philippines uh or South
Korea on that side of the Pacific uh or
the uh Canadians uh or the uh Danish
with Greenland, um then they they also
need to be muscled around a little bit.
And so I see far more similarities than
differences between these two peoples.
>> What would be something that you would
have put in the book if the book was
designed to be a bit more like out
there, speculative, unhinged? like what
was on the cutting room floor that you
would talk about with your friends, you
know, over beers more than you'd put it
in a New York Times bestselling book.
>> Well, Patrick, is this book not unhinged
enough for you? I thought the uh there's
plenty of people who believe that I've
>> What's the spinal tap version? I I I
I've gone off the deep end here, but um
you know, if we had to turn it into to
11, um then I think I would talk a
little bit more about
all of the ways that China believes in
the future. So, I think that China is
that's another similarity between the US
and China. I think they're often very
future oriented. they have a sense of
optimism and um much less much more so
than the Europeans um who have a sense
of optimism only about the past. So I
think that um both countries see
themselves to be pursuing some sort of a
destiny and they're driving really hard
towards it. And something that I'm quite
interested in is the path of Chinese
futurism. Um I think that there's a lot
of ways in which Chinese are much more
pro technology uh than Americans are. uh
China hasn't experienced this broad tech
clash um that um has come across big
tech companies in the US. Um there is no
sense that uh tech is partisan because
nothing in China is allowed to be
partisan. there's no sense of a tech
right and just if we take a look at
technology by technology whether that is
um something like e-commerce um the rate
of e-commerce purchases in China is
something like I I believe last I
checked something like twice as high uh
than in the US um they have um much more
of a sense that artificial intelligence
could be a friend um and something that
um you know is not they don't worry
about taking away all of their energy
and um they uh spend a lot more time on
their phones. Um you know, I think this
is and and this is not positive. This is
one of the things that most bugs me
about Chinese society today. Um last one
I went to Shanghai in um the end of
2024, you can just see people being on
their phones all the time. You could be
with a lot of friends at a restaurant
and people could be just on their phones
the entire time. You could be in a
business meeting and people are on their
phones. And on the one hand that speaks
to you know I think some sort of social
dysfunction among social interactions.
On the other hand that also speaks to
the fact that they are not very um
concerned about what smartphones may be
doing to their life and their brain. And
I would also want to try to write a
little bit about know how the communist
party uh sees itself to be modernizing
the country and how it feels about
various technologies that include um
let's say space missions uh going to the
moon and then Mars and the moons of
Saturn as well. Um, and then how they
view themselves to be much more of an
industrial civilization relative to uh
the Americans which they often denounce
uh in their terms a fictitious economy
or a bubble economy, not a financial
bubble sense, but a bubble that pops
very easily sense. Um, and I think
there's um various strands of Chinese
science fiction that could also be
really worth exploring too. What feels
like the very bleeding edge frontier if
I were to take a month and travel around
China and maybe you could pick like the
four cities I would go visit to to learn
the most and most see the bleeding edge
frontier of everything you just
described. What what does that feel like
today that people might not fully
appreciate?
>> Shanghai is uh my favorite city in
China. Maybe my favorite city in the
world.
>> Wow.
>> Feels a lot like New York. um in uh both
have been port cities with an industrial
past that has significantly moved away
from them. They Shanghai has a ton of
art deco buildings because the time of
its great boom in the 1920s and the
1930s was also a time when art deco uh
really boomed. There's a river that runs
um through both cities and there's a
sense of hustle and ambition that one
can see. It is really comfortable. It's
um like uh a city. It's a little bit
like New York if the French managed
significant parts of it and they put in
a lot of uh beautiful plain trees as
well as um cafes. I think it's uh
perhaps not the bleeding edge of
technology as such but I think Shanghai
represents a bleeding edge of um some
element of consumption. Um you can just
order food really easily in Shanghai.
you can um most of the um Uber like DD
taxis that you would get into um almost
all of them are electric. There are
parts of the city that are superbly well
managed in terms of a lot of traffic
flows. Um there's you can always tell
how much time a red light is going to be
um um to be on and you can see this in
the apps. Um and there's all sorts of
ways in which the city is very well
managed. um it has a subway system that
doesn't screech uh with this metallic uh
noise uh like in New York City. And so
as a place for consumption uh Shanghai
is really wonderful. I would then hop on
the highspeed rail uh from Shanghai to
go to the city of Huf in the province of
Anay which is pretty close by. Hu is
probably let's say 2 hours uh away by
train from um Shanghai. Historically,
Huf um has been um significantly poorer.
It is much more mountainous. Um but now
Huf is the center of uh China's electric
vehicle industry. And so there's several
big EV makers that are headquartered
there or have their operations there.
And um as a city, it has been growing
pretty consistently. There's a lot of um
Chinese first tier cities that have not
been growing quite fast anymore. Um, but
there's plenty of these second tier
cities uh that are growing uh really
well. And then I think um it is always
worthwhile going to Shenzhen uh which is
uh in the south pretty close to Hong
Kong. Um I find Shenzhen probably the
most boring city in China. It's um a lot
of these big office parks. Um a lot of
it is meant for driving. The city layout
is actually kind of uh weird. It's um
like there's several big hubs that are
connected by highways that are pretty
distant from each other. um not that
much interesting culture going on.
People there to people are there to
hustle and to work. Um but it is the
headquarters of companies like Huawei
and Tencent and DJI. A lot of China's
most innovative companies and you can
find a lot of really interesting
electronics there. And you ask for
fourth cities. So I guess the the fourth
one that I'll offer is uh Chongqing,
which is in also in the southwest.
Chongqing. I've um I've learned uh is
really big among the Tik Tok
influencers. Um you can see a lot of
these
>> very futuristic
>> very futuristic uh carved essentially
into cliffs. There's these shimmering
lights. Um there's this really
well-known subway station that goes
through the bottom of an apartment
building in one side and then out to the
other side. Uh and so that is a a really
wonderful imagery.
>> Um it's in the southwest which is where
my family is from. Uh I like
southwesterners. Um they have uh I think
the best sense of humor in China. People
uh there tend to just sit over tea and
chat. Uh they have great food. It's
often very spicy and it is also really
traumatic. So uh what else could you
want um than great food, great people?
where of all these places or or in a
different city, if you were to send an
envoy of US technology entrepreneurs
somewhere where when they emerged from
this this trip, they would be the most
inspired to come back and do things
differently maybe than they were
planning to. Where would you send them?
>> I think maybe the places to visit are
not necessarily in these big cities. uh
I think it would be to try to go to a
few factories and anchor your trip
around a few factories. Now these
factories might be something like
electric vehicle um manufacturers in Hu.
Uh it might be something like um let's
say battery manufacturers in Shenzhen.
Um but wherever you can go to find some
sophisticated factories um making
advanced manufacturing products um just
go there and you know drop by the cities
along the way to see how consumers live.
Um and I'm aware of several teams of
envoys um that have been traveling to
China um in the recent past. Um there's
um there's been a bunch of European
clean tech investors who who've just um
gone to China and in um California. I
know of you know something like um you
know two trips that have gone on this
year and three more trips that are being
planned. And so people are visiting um
and I think that you know it's um there
are these marvels out there and it's
only on us that we're not going out to
discover it. And so if you have the
chance to visit, if you have the chance
to go inside a factory, um definitely
take it. I I strongly believe that it
doesn't matter what a factory is making.
It is always fascinating. Whatever it
is, they could be the most boring
products that could be making brake
pads. And I've I've visited a superbly
interesting brake pad factory. I had no
idea how these things were were made.
When I was in China, I every time I had
the chance to do a factory tour, um to
perhaps uh eat with the workers, um I
always took it and I'd tell the uh
factory managers, I'll take put away all
my electronic devices. I'll sign
whatever you need me to sign, but um
just uh you know, walk me through the
factory floor. And that's always a
ravishing experience.
>> Can you compare and contrast the work
ethics of the two countries? I'm
especially curious at like the very
highest end like if you took America's
most productive people maybe in the
technology sector working all the time
to build you know new AI companies or
whatever and compared it to a similar
set in China how the two compare and
contrast also more broadly curious how
they compare and contrast but especially
at the very high end.
>> Yeah. So if we're taking a look at the
let's say top 0.01% to 01% of
entrepreneurs. I feel like there's a lot
of similarities and when I chat with
people who interact with their
counterparts um Silicon Valley folks
chatting with their counterparts in
Beijing, they tend to respect each other
and they look upon each other as peers
and I think there's some ways in which
the um Silicon Valley folks are a little
bit more philosophical. they're a little
bit more engaged with um you know policy
and trends and what um the uh their
impacts of um their companies and their
technologies are on society often
because the employees make them. I think
maybe the Chinese entrepreneurs are um a
little bit more involved with thinking
about the political trends often because
the communist party makes them. Um but
you know at a you know work ethic um
level I think they're probably pretty
comparable. But if we broaden it out a
little bit more, let's say the top 10%
of workers, um maybe here again there's
um there's more similarities than
dissimilarities, I I I would suspect
that the Chinese are putting in more
hours just trying to work harder here.
And if we take a look at the median um
engineer, median worker between the US
and China, I strongly suspect the
Chinese are just putting in much much
more hours um relative to the median in
the US. Uh I think in California, we'd
love to make fun of the Google offices
um which clears out by 3 p.m. on a
Friday. everyone's um at the Yoka
studios again and not uh not really
working super hard be in particular
because it's Google and that sort of
thing is pretty unimaginable in China
which uh invented this phrase 996
working from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. six
days a week and I think there's some you
know really you know maybe inspiration
is really important working smart is
really important but I think working
hard is also uh very very important um
you know according to these um
statistics which are out there uh it
takes a an automaker from the US or
Japan or uh Germany roughly six years to
conceptualize of a new model and
actually get it out on the roads of a
new um vehicle And in China, it's
something more like 18 months um to two
years, right? So at a first
approximation, they're probably working
at least three times faster than the
Americans uh are are doing. Um there's
some, you know, founding mythos of uh
companies like MTW. Um I visited Mto
with my friend Eugene Wei who is also a
big fan and who has been on this show.
Um we went to visit uh their offices in
Beijing in uh 2018. And part of what the
story that Mtoan tells about itself
uh is that it survived 5,000 other
competitors who were all Groupon clones
that started at around the same time in
something like 2015 or so. Mine was a
big company now. It's one of China's
biggest uh tech companies. Mine was a
big company um back then and it's now
one of China's biggest tech companies
now. And you know, just imagine how
ruthless and cutthroat the executive
team has to be to survive this battle
royale of 5,000 companies. And so, you
know, I think there are some ways in
which um you know, maybe inspiration is
still better here. Maybe the sparks are
still better here, but I do often feel
that the Chinese are just
comprehensively outworking the Americans
in in some big ways. Maybe that doesn't
matter for technologies like AI. Um, but
for pretty much everything else, it pays
to just work at much faster cycles and
just learn much more. I'd love to ask
some investing questions as an investing
audience. Um, if I were to shrink down
the investing debate about China to a
single uh common debate, it would be
around bite dance because it's a company
that produces crazy amounts of free cash
flow. uh it's its equity trades at a
tiny fraction of that free cash flow in
terms of a multiple than it would if it
was just like if you could just take the
exact same financials and put it in in
America it might be I don't know 10
times more valuable or something like
this and so people use this as an
example of like what do you think about
bite dance when they're really asking
like what do you think about the
opportunity to invest in China and maybe
this is the right time to talk about
this sort of kneecapping that happened
several years ago around some of the
Chinese internet giants um and you know
what happened and why and what that
tells us about the about the the party
and and and and beyond. But I' I'd love
just your general framing on like how to
think about these companies which sound
really interesting and fantastic which
have produced lots of free cash flow in
some cases as an investment opportunity
or not or it just belongs in like the
too hard pile for American investors.
Yeah, I think the um as a former
technology analyst at Gavcow trackomics
um this question was on our minds um
every day and um our uh clients were um
endowments, pensions, hedge funds, asset
allocators of all sorts um from a
strictly macro perspective. So I never
said anything about buy sell particular
stocks but you know just thinking about
these um you know I think thinking about
these broad trends of China I think
there's several paradoxes I think the
first paradox uh is that Chinese
companies are uh really capable and um
China's economy has grown by an average
of something like 9% over the past uh 20
years and what has been happening to
China's stock market it's been
essentially flat where the the Shanghai
and the Shenzhin exchanges have not
risen very much. Nothing commensurate
with 9% growth. And so there's just a
variety of I think just structural
factors that makes it really difficult
um for China's uh stock markets to grow
at large. So that that is one component
um of of of the valuation puzzle um with
a big company like Bance or or Alibaba.
Alibaba is listed and um still
relatively cheap. I think another
paradox here is that yes, a company like
Alibaba uh or bite dance could be
throwing off so much cash. Um but the
nature of their businesses sometimes
entangles them with the Communist Party.
And the Communist Party um I I as I
think about it resemble something like
um the God of the Old Testament
>> which uh can be very generous sometimes
but then otherwise it could just um you
know randomly smite you um because it is
trying to pursue some sort of
valuesdriven uh belief system. bite
dance in uh 2018. I was living in um
Beijing at this time was humiliated by
the government when the government said
that one of the suite of apps of bite
dance had um violated core socialist
values because it had a lot of these
jokes out there and the communist party
didn't really like these jokes and the
founder of by danceying wrote this you
know totally self- flagagillating letter
saying we are so sorry that we did not
uphold core socialist values and I am at
fault and you know it is just impossible
to imagine any tech CEO in America
writing something like that. Um Alibaba
most famously uh is uh founded by a
loudmouth uh named Jack Ma who uh shot
off his mouth uh one too many times in
uh the year 2020 when he launched this
blistering broadside against financial
regulators um saying that they were so
behind the times. And shortly after that
um the communist parties smashed uh Ant
Financial and prevented it uh from going
public which is still uh the case today
and financial still not public and um
shortly after that the communist party
started taking the scalps of uh
companies uh that weren't just uh didn't
include only Alibaba but also online
education um e-commerce uh antitrust
actions against the entire sector. Um so
that part is real as well. Then there's
a third component of all of these risks
that I think investors have a hard time
putting to bed, which is um you know the
suite of geopolitical issues that are
kind of particular to China. American
investors aren't even buying Alibaba
directly. It is um buying from a Cayman
Island uh entity that has contractual
relationships with Bite Dance. And are
we really sure that we're getting
something real here? You know, it's hard
to lay that fear to bed. Um, China has
capital controls and um, that has
deterred a lot of investment um,
including portfolio flows uh, from a lot
of investors. And probably the biggest
geopolitical puzzle for a lot of people
uh is that
Beijing is very clear that it intends to
seize the island nation of Taiwan one
day. And um if it does so, it is pretty
likely that it will face um very hard
sanctions um from especially the US
government as well as probably u you
know all western governments. And we saw
what happened uh in 2021 when Russia
decided to move on Ukraine. Um a lot of
the central bank reserves in Russia uh
were frozen. Um American portfolio
managers were no longer able to invest
in Russia. And um you know even
McDonald's corporation had to leave
Russia because of American sanctions.
And can anyone really be sure that um a
few years from now? Um sometimes some
people feel like even a few months from
now Beijing is going to initiate some
sort of action against Taiwan. This is
not really my expectation that they will
do something but um none of us can be
sure that they won't do something. And
so long as that fear is present, I think
that goes some length to explaining why
it becomes pretty unappetizing.
>> Why buy trades for 10 times your cash
flow?
>> Yeah. uh you know if you're a pension or
you're a university endowment um do you
really want to hold this and then you
know the US government treasury comes
asking you know what are you doing
>> thinking about potential future
equilibrium states between the two
superpowers so let's just assume these
are the two you know big important
powers one of the things that always
caught my attention in the US maybe the
reason it's become less interested in
global affairs is how self-sufficient it
is there's actually not a huge percent
of the economy that's like relying on
the outside or pretty self-sufficient in
lots of ways in terms of you know major
goods. Understanding that is one of the
future scenarios that these two just
sort of exist as separate universes from
each other. Is that one? What are the
other like equilibrium states that you
could imagine 20 years from now, 30
years from now between the two
countries?
>> Yeah. Well, equilibrium is a really
important concept here because it
implies that um no state really feels
the need to shift in a big way. Um I
think the scary thing might be that um
you know something upsets the
equilibrium where one country feels the
feels under threat in some way. First I
think uh I uh only partially agree with
you that um the US feels very
self-sufficient at the moment. Um you're
right by a lot of you know just simple
conventional measures um imports are
something like 12% of US um GDP and it's
not a huge uh amount but um in a crisis
it turns out that the US actually really
needs something like this 12%. I think a
lot about the early days of COVID which
um is speaks to another difference
between um China as well as uh uh
America. Um, in the early days of COVID,
um, the US struggled to produce anything
as simple as masks and cotton swabs. Um,
I was living in China and one of the
most instructive little, um, moments I
remember was going up to a factory
manager um, in around Shanghai. And this
factory manager marveled to me that
Americans uh, manufacturers didn't get
their act together to produce really
important goods. And in this um Chinese
guys formulation
um too many of these American companies
ask themselves whether making masks and
cotton swabs is part of their core
competence. And for very few companies
that's where their core competence and
then they don't uh don't make it.
Chinese companies say that making money
is their core competence. Therefore they
go make what the market demands which uh
then was masks and cotton swabs. And so
I was, you know, grabbing masks made by
Foxcon, which normally makes iPhones,
and by JD.com, which is one of China's
biggest e-commerce retailers. They just
decided to retool a lot of their factory
lines to produce these things that the
market needed. And there was some
complacency and lack of um hustle among
American manufacturers to actually
produce these sort of things. In the
early days of the pandemic, a lot of
consumer goods uh were in shortage. A
lot of furniture was in shortage. um you
know, random fruits ran out depending on
which part of Mexico uh had a COVID
outbreak uh at that time. And just
generally speaking, I think that the
American manufacturing base has not
covered itself in glory um over the last
20 years. It's not just Boeing, Intel,
Tesla, Detroit broadly. Um there's all
sorts of rust um and inability to move.
If we take a look at uh China's energy
imports, um it is importing less and
less in part because it has scaled up uh
so much solar capacity uh within China.
So um by the end of this year, China is
um expected to add 500 gawatts of solar
capacity. The US is expected to add
about 50 gawatt. So just one order of
magnitude more. There's 33 nuclear
plants under construction in China right
now. there's zero under construction in
the US and the Chinese have beencome
been much much more successful in
shifting its consumers into buying
electric vehicles. So um at this point
by the end of this year one out of every
two cars sold in China will be electric
and so they've been able to blunt this
um dependence that they have on foreign
energy. It's not growing so much and
perhaps it will decline uh soon enough.
And there's all sorts of ways in which
they're also very serious about food
self-sufficiency. They're also very
serious about semiconductor
self-sufficiency. And so, um, this is
again where I see, you know, if the US
and China are in competition, China's
being much better at patching up its,
um, its its own problems than the US
has.
>> The the factory story, uh, the the
retooling to make masks and cotton swabs
sounds very high agency thing. Which
society do you think is higher agency?
>> I think it's uh, China. I think China is
a high agency high-te society where they
are really able to you know once they
decide to do something they um are you
know once they decide to build this
infrastructure it comes out and it
gleams once California decides to build
infrastructure you know it's 17 years
and it's going to be like 20 years um
before uh anyone is able to you know get
close to riding highspeed rail and you
know there's um there's various ways to
measure you know something like social
trust in China by a lot of conventional
measures like you know you lose your
wallet uh in the park nearby will
someone return it to you in China that
um share is rather low but um I was
thinking of this definition of social
trust from the scholar Francis Fukuyama
that said that he says something like
social trust is the measure of
spontaneous coordination of um people
able to get together quickly make
decisions quickly and act quickly and at
least in the early days of COVID that's
something that China really had um where
manufacturers were working really well
together, tech companies were making it
really clear where the uh fever clinics
were on the mapping services and the
government really stepped up in a big
way as well. Um and the US you know at
least in 2020 really did not do any of
these sort of things.
>> We haven't talked at all about the
lawyerly uh tendencies of US society
that's you know you talk about
engineering in China and the and the
sort of US being run by lawyers. What
are the pros and cons of of that very
different orientation?
>> The pros of the lawyerly society are um
a guarantee of my favorite value in
America, which is pluralism. That um
there is some measure of robust debate
that is guaranteed uh in the US. And one
of the things that really thrills me
about having moved back to uh the US um
over the last um two and a half years
now is that there's just always energy
uh among Americans to try to diagnose
their problems and try to improve on
them. Um, two weeks ago I uh went from
New York to Washington DC to speak at
the Abundance Conference um in um in in
in DC and that is just one strand of um
the recognition that America has lost a
lot of crucial abilities to build homes,
transit, um all sorts of infrastructure
and we need to get a lot better. I think
that folks in um New York and you're one
of these rallying points um you know are
helping people to understand the world
um as it is a little bit better to
really try to improve a lot of different
things. I am plugged into several
conversations at the Hoover Institution
and there's a tremendous sense that a
lot of things in the US are not working
and we need to get better. The problem
is that uh the US is not very good at
execution. And even though you know
we've realized for a long while that the
manufacturing base is quite deeply
broken in this country, the US has not
really been able to fix this uh in any
compelling ways. Um there are complaints
among the American left about what
should be done. There are complaints
about the American right about what
should be done. It's very strange to be
in this political system where
elections usually have these razor thin
uh margins and then one side takes over
seriously overreaches and then the other
side wins by really thin margins and
then overreaches uh again. I think the
fundamental problem of among lawyers is
that they are for the most part
protectors of the rich and and that is
essential in some ways because you can't
build companies worth $4 trillion like
Nvidia without substantial legal
protections. Um you know we need a lot
of lawyers in place for Nvidia to feel
comfortable about um doing everything
that it's doing. But I think the society
won't work well if it is mostly about
serving the rich. So, in New York City,
we're we're chatting now. The rich don't
really have to worry too much about
affordable housing. Um the rich have
access to these skinny uh skyscrapers
that you can see on the skyline. The um
you know, rich don't really have to deal
with the problems of the subways uh
which are just again screechingly loud
and um service is really quite bad
compared to any European or uh East
Asian uh country. And I think that, you
know, the lawyers need to get out of the
way a little bit uh in order for the US
to, you know, build things for the
broader masses. I just offer two
anecdotes that I I think about a lot. Um
both relating to trains. Um when I took
the Acceler down to Washington DC um two
weeks ago, um the acceler works okay.
It's not always very reliable and I find
that it is um really really wobbly. And
while I was on the acceler, I came
across this headline, acceler getting an
upgrade. We're going to get um new
trains. And I was happy about that until
I read deeper into the article. It said
that new trains are going to be
something like 11 minutes slower than
the old trains. And so, you know, at a
first approximation, we're we're like
moving slower um than before. The foam
seats are better. Uh they're more
comfortable, but we're going to take
longer um to actually um uh get to DC.
And uh I substantially wrote this book
in my you know um cloistered um uh
office at the um at Yale University. And
every so often I was uh tired of the
monastic life and I decided to you know
be seduced by the pleasures of New York
City. Uh I take the Metro North train um
to get from New Haven down to uh New
York City. That train is highly
reliable. It's a little bit slow. Um,
and I was uh radicalized um when I found
a timet from 1914
um in which it was faster to get from
Grand Central Terminal in New York to
New Haven about 100 years ago than it is
today. It's not totally apples to apples
comparison because the train now makes
many more stops. But again, out of first
approximation, we're moving slower than
100 years ago. That is in part because
of the lawyerly society in which a lot
of homeowners in Connecticut put up
their hands and said, "We shall not have
a rail line running through our
backyard." and that, you know, the
proposed route of Amtrak turned out to
be much more squiggly after these
homeowners um decided to use their very
expensive lawyers to sue and say um no
way in our backyard. And um you know
that has added quite a lot of time uh to
and quite a lot of expense to these
projects which cannot be very
technocratically rationally designed.
And so um this is where I'm hopeful that
the lawyers aren't going to get in the
way of absolutely everything especially
the sort of broader infrastructure
that's like you know serve the masses
needs.
>> It reminds me of this idea that if you
study eastern portraiture versus western
in the west almost all of them are you
know your face is most of the canvas
whereas in the east often the
portraiture is a small person amidst a
bigger landscape and quite quite
representative of the two different
styles. Um, I'm curious just to just for
a side quest for a minute, if you had to
write a sequel to the book about a
country that's not the US or China, what
next country you would be most
interested in writing about and why?
>> Yeah, I think this would be challenging
because I really believe that the future
will be determined by these two big
countries.
um that I think what's most important is
for these two countries to get along
because um on my very first page I
denounce Europe for being a mausoleum
economy um where things are very
beautiful but things are also very dead
and I don't quite yet believe that um
you know um India and Indonesia are
quite ready yet to challenge these um
two bigger powers but I think this um
gets back to um you know the the broader
question of
um the equilibrium that you brought up
and I think you know what we don't want
is for there to be um too much
destabilization. I think most Americans
as well as most Chinese ought to be
thinking about is how do we avoid a
confilration and how do we avoid a hot
war because World War I took something
like 10 million lives. um the World War
II two took something like 50 million
and we don't want to get um to World War
II in which you know tens of millions uh
die. you know there's a scenario in
which you know I think the US strategy
over the last 30 years has been to kind
of hope that markets and the internet
will change China for the better um and
change this communist system into
something um more like a liberal
democracy and that bet has not worked
out and that bet um I think could be
firmly uh laid to bed and so now we have
to ask you know what is this um you know
is there some sort of uneasy equilibrium
that we can really stumble in to avoid a
hot war and at least um my guru um at
the Hoover Institution historian Steven
Cotkin would say what we need is a new
cold war um in which um you know the two
countries decide not to have a very big
fight but rather um to compete on the
level of the systems to have um to
deliver better for the people. Now I
think um you know a lot of people are
nervous about this cold war framing uh
including me. The cold war was not very
cold for uh a lot of other countries uh
say something like Vietnam. Um the cold
war created so many crazy abuses um
within the Soviet Union as well as the
US and the name of competition. Um maybe
cold war is not the right analogy
because there's huge trade and
integration between um the US and China
right now whereas there was essentially
no trade uh between the US and the
Soviet Union in the past but then we
should come up with some new term really
to try to understand um both of these
countries and to try to you know keep
competition on the level of companies as
well as who's delivering the better
vision for their own people rather than
anything bigger involving a conflict
ration in the Pacific God forbid. the
USSR collapsed um at the end of the Cold
War. What is China doing most
differently from Russia that uh you
think will not lead to an eventual
collapse of the Chinese system? I think
the Chinese are excellent students of
history and I think the first may
there's maybe several study there's
several countries that they really study
um first and foremost it is the Soviet
Union um that they diagnose the problem
of the Soviet Union to have been in the
late 80s when Gorbachev tried to achieve
both economic reform as well as
political reform at the same time and um
you know the story of the Soviet Union
is one in which the political system
sort of imploded and then um the pieces
nobody picked up the pieces really to
try to get the system back up again. And
so that's the first thing that they try
to avoid. And there's they also really
try to avoid the fate of Japan which uh
suffered an economic implosion um by the
late 80s and also never quite got back
up again. And so I think the first
reason to believe that China will not
suffer a political collapse um like the
Soviet Union or an economic collapse
like Japan is that there's history here
to suggest a better path forward for
them um that they want to avoid a lot of
these mistakes. Um whether they could
actually avoid some of these mistakes is
a different question. Maybe they'll come
up with some whole new novel um
interesting mistake that um you know
creates some sort of a collapse in
either scenario. But I think history
will not repeat in exactly the same way.
China is is a Leninist system uh like
the Soviet Union. But it has a thriving
uh substantial consumer um economy which
is doing superbly well in terms of
creating all sorts of products that the
Soviet Union never created. All it did
was a ton of heavy industry. It produced
a lot of steel and chemicals, very
little goods for its people. Um China is
not like Japan. um for a variety of
ways, but one that's quite pertinent to
me is that if we take a look at um
Japanese exports uh throughout the 70s
and the 80s, a product from uh Nintendo
or Mitsubishi or Toyota was almost
entirely Japanese value ad. These were
Japanese companies making Japanese
products. Um and part of the complaint
of the Reagan administration was that
Japan was too closed and Japan needed to
open up. By contrast, China has been
much more open than Japan. Um, China
most famously is uh well known for
building Apple's iPhones and Tesla's um
vehicles and it the communist system
recognized that it was so far behind um
technological leaders mostly throw open
the doors with some restrictions to
Western companies to produce in China
and then you know previously make mostly
foreign goods only assembling uh these
different components until at this point
a great deal of Apple supply chain is
made up Chinese components as well. And
so, you know, it's not quite the Soviet
Union, it's not quite Japan, and I think
there's this ineffable um Chinese
characteristics um also thrown in which
the Chinese people, I think, are highly
entrepreneurial much like the Americans.
They're highly dynamic. They take
shortcuts. Um there's a million and one
huers trying to make a dime um and
trying to profit and trying to found
companies. And so, you know, maybe we
can say that uh China right now
um has some of the uh control uh
paranoia of the Soviet Union um some of
the manufacturing excellence of Japan
and some of the American entrepreneurial
hustle and you combine all of that and I
think that is um part of the reason that
I think that um China is going to be a
pretty formidable power going forward.
>> What do you think? Uh I think it was
Eugene, our friend Eugene that first
gave me the Seeing Like a State book by
James C. got of the of just the very
abstract idea that uh top- down systems
just don't work as well over the very
long term as bottom-up ones do. That in
the near term they actually can work
faster and better, but the the roots
aren't aren't as deep and as natural and
therefore, you know, they're they're
just more fragile top- down systems than
bottom-up ones. Do you think that holds
credence in this argument between the US
and, you know, more arguably a more
bottomup um society and organization
than China?
>> I do. I love the work of James C. Scott,
a former um Yale political scientist,
anthropologist who very sadly passed
away um just about a year ago, but I've
read pretty much all of Scott's works.
And um if I can throw in another Scott
work for listeners, it is the art of not
being governed, which is about highland
Southeast Asia. Um these parts of very
mountainous parts of um essentially
southwestern China, this region that is
about as big as Europe. um that includes
southwestern China as well as Vietnam,
Laos, Cambodia, uh northern Thailand in
which various peoples have decided to
run away from the state. Um whether
that's the Burmese state or the Tibetan
state or especially the Hanchinese
state, they were um wary of
conscription. They were wary of taxation
and they didn't really like assessors
coming over to look at their grain all
the time, sometimes bearing disease. And
Scott was really remarkable for um
having spent quite a lot of time in
these zones talking to people who have
oral histories which gives them more
malleable ethnic identities and they can
run away much more effectively. And I
think about this a lot because I've
spoken to a lot of Chinese who have
decided to run away exactly in these um
highlands. Um again my um family origins
are in Yinan province. This is exactly
the part of Zomia, Highland Southeast
Asia that um James Scott has written
about. I feel like people from um where
I'm from uh Yingan province are some of
the have some of the more libertarian
attitudes um in China. They really don't
like the state um looking over their
shoulder. Um many of them practice
agriculture up in the mountains which is
much more difficult for the uh state to
come over uh and assess. And I think
part of the problems of the engineering
state is that many people have decided
to retreat um to um these different
parts of these different corners of the
world. Um in 2023
I went on this walk and talk with Kevin
Kelly around Mai and we walked from one
of the highest mountains in Thailand
down to the city of Mai. And afterwards,
uh, my wife and I spent a lot of time
with mostly young Chinese, um, young
Chinese who are in their 20s or early
30s who ran away from China. Um, decided
that the sensorious uh, nature of the
overbearing state was more than they
could bear. And they decided to um, make
art, dabble in crypto, um, smoke dope
uh, in the mountains around Mai. And I
thought, you know, it is really strange
that, you know, Ciin Ping is trying to
achieve something he calls the great
rejuvenation of the Chinese uh people.
And there's a lot of young people who
are saying, "No thanks. We'll give that
a pass." There's a lot of millionaires
um by one count um 14,000 millionaires
departed from China in the year 2023 to
move to Singapore, to move to Japan, to
move to the UK and the US in part
because the Communist Party has smashed
a lot of their businesses. There's a lot
of um people who are not so creative,
who are not necessarily very wealthy,
who decided to hop on a plane to Ecuador
where they don't need a visa and then
walk across the Darian um gap into the
United States. And um at its peak in
2024, there were several months in which
um USCBP were was apprehending something
like 30 to 40,000 Chinese nationals um
at the Texan um border. And that that to
me is also something that um is really
uh striking that so many people are you
know willing to do this dangerous trek
essentially to uh escape from China. I
think that China will not become
anything like a cultural superpower in
part because the engineers are so
sensorious. They're so thin skinned.
They censor everything they can't
understand which is a lot. Um and if you
take a look at a lot of aspects of
cultural production whether that is
books, novels, uh films in China that
has really become much more constricted
uh over the past 12 years of cases rule.
I think that China will not become
anything like a big financial superpower
in part because the control tendencies
uh of the engineers is to impose a lot
of capital controls. Uh and that makes
it much more difficult for foreigners to
want to hold R&B. Last I checked, R&B
still only made up about 4% of uh global
trade volumes. And I I think I want to
make this narrow case that the
engineering state is really good at
building stuff. They have the
manufacturing workforce. They have the
entrepreneurial enthusiasm. They have um
the government support in order to keep
getting better and better at a lot of
advanced manufacturing industries. Um
but even if China, you know, pisses off
a lot of its own people, pisses off a
lot of its neighbors as well as um
broader set of people, the very fact
that it can make manufactured products
um better and better, that is a pretty
significant threat to the United States
because there is a chance I think that
they will do really well on artificial
intelligence as well. But even if they
just get much better at making vehicles,
I don't want to see the US further
de-industrialized. Um right now there's
12 million manufacturing workers in the
US. I don't want to get in a scenario
where a decade from now we have only 6
million and I think that is going to
hurt the economy and introduce greater
political dysfunctions and even if the
engineering state uh does very well in
the short run for um James C. got
reasons and even if the in the longer
run it does not do so well in part
because people want to leave in part
because of demographic problems the
future is made up of the a series of
short runs and if China is really able
to do super well in the next 5 years 15
years might be enough to subdue America
in pretty substantial ways later later
on
>> one of the things that jumps out is the
sensitivity of the Chinese model to the
person in charge and the people aligned
with with him if we had had this
conversation when Den Jaing was running
China or so important in China. Maybe
the trajectory we would have projected
to be very different than it's ended up
being. I'm curious what you think, you
know, the 3, four, five people that have
been the most important maybe since Mao
or something and how they've changed the
the trajectory of China and how how
likely it is that the next person is
more like Dingja or more liberal or more
uh more plurist pluralist leanings or
not. Such an interesting aspect of this
whole trajectory. Yeah, I would bet not
because um first I agree with you that
um the Chinese system is really under
the sway of a single leader um and that
is almost by design. I mean it is really
meant to the authority in China is meant
to vest um in the pallet bureau standing
committee which is made up of seven to
nine people. Um but you know it is also
u possible as we've seen in the case of
Cinping really to dominate um the entire
system and what she says more or less
goes and I think that but the the the
part that I would hesitate to fully um
you know imagine when ciin goes away
that the system will be different is
that even if we have a dangoing like
figure um China might still have a lot
of dysfunctions because I would say that
dangiaing introduced a lot of the
dysfunctions um that carry over to um to
Cinping. Broadly speaking, um Dangoing
ought to be best known for being the
architect of reform and opening which
liberalized the economy. And that is a
tremendous good that is perhaps the most
tremendous economic good ever in the
history of humanity because about 1.4 4
billion people were lifted out of
poverty and a few hundred million of
those are living very comfortable lives
and a few million of those are were
living lives on par with uh some of the
best uh in the United States and that is
an extraordinary achievement. On the
other hand, Deng Xiaoing was also uh
very autocratic himself and he was in
the words of one um historian who was
quite senior in the party he was half a
ma. Um he was someone who was really
really ruthless towards his political
enemies. Um he was never quite able to
figure out succession planning. He um
fired two of his handpicked successors
and almost fired um his third one
Tanzaming who ended up running the
country. Um but he was someone who um
was also really famous for ordering
tanks uh into Beijing um for a while
throughout the 1990s. people labeled him
as well as a few other communist party
members the butchers of Beijing um
because they ordered in the tanks. And
so Denging did not permit substantial
political reform. Um he promoted
tremendous economic reform but um he did
not figure out this problem of
succession. And so um you know we can
maybe situate Ciin Ping in kind of a a
direct analog of Deng Xiao Ping because
uh he is also grappling with questions
of succession what comes after him um
and he is has been pretty ruthless
towards people he has purged and so um
this is where I I'm uh skeptical that
there are deep pluralist genes in China.
I think that China um throughout its
imperial history has substantially
lacked a liberal tradition. Um a liberal
tradition meaning one that is interested
in restraining the power of the emperor.
Um and um you know promoting the power
of the individual or the family or the
corporation. I think that the future of
China my bet would be that there is it
looks politically much more similar um
in the future as it does today. I've
been a little surprised since the
original deepseek moment which for at
least a week really shook the US in
terms of the progress that had been made
in AI in China that I haven't heard more
about it since and and so I'm curious
your impression of AI in China the the
country and the party's orientation
towards it the state of the technology
relative to the U leading US you know
research labs etc. What does AI in China
feel like to you today? Yeah, I think um
AI for me um what is most important is
going to be um in the next five years.
Today I think that the US still has a
decisive lead on most aspects of
artificial intelligence
um mostly because it has the compute
resources. Um here it has the leading
Nvidia chips and China does not. But I
think if we are going to have much more
AI in our lives, I think the competition
is much more of a tossup. Um, again
looking forward um in the next 5 years,
which is a lifetime by the standards of
a lot of AI um but maybe maybe a shorter
time span for for the rest of us. And
here is where I think China actually
does have a lot of advantages uh in AI
uh relative to the US. So if we have uh
much broader AI in our lives, we're
going to be using um AI for all of our
queries, we're going to also demand much
more power than we currently have. And
the US has not been doing very well on
adding new power to the grid. As I said,
um it is only going to be adding
something like 50 gawatts of solar this
year relative to 500 in China. No new
nuclear plants under construction. Um
maybe that will change uh because the
Trump administration is more friendly
towards nuclear. Um but the US has
simply not added um much by way of power
and China I think as a civilization um
is um as a as the engineering state
civilization is just very interested in
making sure that no heavy industry ever
goes hungry for power and so just the
scale of the you know electrical
production in China is just vastly
outpacing the US. The question of talent
is um always very fluid. Um right now
you know how many researchers really
matter for artificial intelligence. I
don't know if the figure is more like um
10,000 or more like 1,000. And within
the 10,00 um it seems like China has a
lot of really good talent which is um
represented by DeepSeek earlier this
year which showed that it's not only
Silicon Valley that can produce really
good reasoning models. And at least from
what we can tell in some of the publicly
listed hires for Meta's super
intelligence lab um a substantial number
of these really elite I think there's 11
engineers who are publicly disclosed
something like um seven of them had gone
to uh Chinese universities and I believe
they're all Chinese nationals and um I
think there's some sense of nervousness
among some folks in Silicon Valley that
some of these really elite engineers um
might pack up their bags and decide to
repatriate back to China for a variety
of reasons. Either because, you know,
the byite dance is offering a much
better a comparable pay package to them
and they can live a much more
comfortable life in Beijing or Shanghai.
Maybe they just want the better noodles.
Um, which California doesn't really
have. Um, or, you know, there's some
sense in which they feel anti-Asian
hostility in the US. They fear the
rhetoric of the Trump administration.
And there's some nervousness among
Asian-Americans, even friends I have um
here, that the Trump administration is
going to turn super populist and drive
out all of the um Indian engineers as
well as the Chinese engineers as well.
And so within this talent pool um if a
substantial number of them decide to
repatriate, then it's a little bit tough
to see um to say exactly who's ahead on
talent, but um you know, it's possible
that the Chinese will will have some
sort of lead here. And then there's also
a question of if AI gets much better,
what will the Americans use it on? What
will uh the Chinese use it on? America
is much more of a servicesdriven
economy. Um maybe we have all of the
data to automate our healthcare sector
as well as our consulting sector. And so
and the Chinese are going to have the
data to automate their manufacturing
sector. And you know, to be very glib
here, I I'll say that, you know, maybe
America gets a much better McKenzie and
China gets a much better Foxcon and then
they're going to use this much better AI
Foxcon to produce a lot more drones and
munitions and ships as well. And the US
simply doesn't have the training data,
the process knowledge in place um really
to get much better at manufacturing. And
so um maybe right now we haven't seen
another big deepseek moment, but I think
the future is very much up for grabs. Um
and China right now has really good
talent, really good reasoning model. It
is now chips uh compute constraint, but
seems like Donald Trump wants to make a
deal and um impose an export tax of 15%
on Nvidia, but then give a lot more
compute to China. And I think that you
know the future is going to be a really
tight race between who can get to AGI
and who can deploy AGI in a much better
way.
>> What is the most interesting thing to
you about Huawei? I think Huawei
represents a Chinese company that is
super vertically integrated
um which does a little bit of
everything. the part of the founding
myth of many uh Asian companies. I think
the founding myth of Foxcon which makes
all the iPhones the Taiwanese
manufacturer um started by making
something like the plastic television
knobs um before it made you know
desktops and iPods and um iPhones and I
I forget what sort of I think some
something related to switchboards um
something that Huawei started on until
it is now a company that makes 5G
equipment. um that uh makes all of these
mobile stations that makes a lot of
mobile handsets um and kind of a million
and uh one things and according to parts
of Washington DC it also has a really uh
close relationship with the people's
liberation army and making some
sensitive military goods for them as
well but there's a lot of these Chinese
companies that um you know decide why
not let's just be vertically integrated
we're not only going to make um you know
all of our electric vehicles. We're also
going to make the batteries and we're
also going to make some of the chips
that are powering uh the vehicles as
well. And there is this um you know
element of uh vertical integration uh in
which um you know I want to set up to go
back to one of our earlier points. I
also want to set up a contrast between
um two of America's handset companies.
Um first let's compare um Apple um what
is the valuation of Apple now? It's
about three four trillion dollars. Um uh
with Xiaomi whose market cap is I don't
know um not more than onetenth of um
Apple's valuation probably not even
120th Apple's valuation. Um Apple has
been famously working on uh a car for
about uh 10 years nicknamed project
Titan until they decided to throw in the
towel a couple of years ago. Xiaomi,
which you know, let's say is worth 120th
the level of um Apple,
uh which is mostly a handset maker as
well as a maker of rice cookers and you
know, fans and all sorts of other
household consumer electronics goods. Um
the CEO of Xiaomi declared in 2021, I'm
going to invest $10 billion in making my
car. This is going to be my focus. This
is going to be my last great
entrepreneurial venture. And what
happened afterwards? Um again, Apple
threw in the towel and decided not to
make any vehicles. Uh Xiaomi um Xiaomi's
first electric SUVs are um now on the
streets uh in China. They keep raising
their production quantities because a
lot of people really love uh these SUVs
and they they love these cars. And most
striking to me, um, in a few months ago,
there's this, uh, very well-known German
raceourse in Western Germany called
Norberg Ring, which has this, um,
racetrack named the Green Hell because
it is twisting through these, um,
mountains, uh, in Western Germany. Um
and Xiaomi uh in its first time uh
submitting going into this race um
making its very first car won one of the
speed records um beating uh established
companies like Porsche and BMW. And you
know this is a company that just had the
manufacturing workforce that had the
ecosystems of suppliers that had to some
extent government support um that was
really able to do something that a much
richer company was unable to do. And so
this is where I, you know, come back to
this idea. Are we undervaluing China?
Um, should we really be looking at some
of these measures like Nobel prizes. Um,
are we undervaluing China because we are
thinking too much about the market
valuations of big companies like um,
Nvidia and Apple. You know, maybe what
actually matters is a company saying
that it's going to do something and
actually achieving it. And once it
achieves it, it is making some really
good products that are pretty
worldbeating. And so that's something
that, you know, we see with Huawei, we
see with Xiaomi, with a lot of other
companies living in this fiercely
dynamic entrepreneurial environment, you
know, tearing each other apart through
um market competition, sometimes
underhanded, and producing great
technology champions along the way.
>> If we were to step back and you frame
this whole thing as okay, the
engineering state has its its strengths
and weaknesses, the the lawyerly state
has its strengths and weaknesses, and
these are the two superpowers.
If you were to boil the whole story down
to, you know, the simplest narrative
that that you could imagine, how would
you do that to like a 15-year-old or a
10-year-old, someone a kid that's trying
to understand the trajectory of the
world that may not understand that, you
know, the the subtle difference between
loyally and and engineering. Is there
have you attempted to to boil it down
even to that level uh and create the
best story for them to understand what's
happening? Maybe what I would point out
is that when China decides to do
something,
it um moves really quickly. It is um
much more of a whole of society, a whole
of government effort. Um and it is much
more serious about um doing a lot of uh
big projects. And sometimes that goes
disastrously off track um because they
end up committing to something like the
one child policy um or zero COVID in
which the number is right there in the
name. It's almost an engineering
project. Um there's no ambiguity about
what these sort of things mean. Whereas
the US is um much
more deliberative. It thinks a lot about
things. um often it fails uh in some of
these um
the goals that it tries to do. Um
something like you know the US couldn't
possibly have achieved zero COVID um
because it there was no enforcement
possible enforcement mechanism of to get
people actually you know staying indoors
and not going outside in any big way.
Um, so the US doesn't get stupid ideas
like um zero COVID, but it also doesn't
get, you know, things that it says that
it really wants to do like California
highspeed rail. And so um what I would
say is that, you know,
one of the my conclusions, one of my new
realizations after writing this book is
that maybe there can be too much state
capacity. Maybe you don't want a state
to be too efficient. you know, if the
engineers are too efficient and they
really decide to drag society um to go
off track, they can go really off track
before there's any sort of course
correction. So, you you kind of want the
ideal level of state capacity that's
much more than what the US has right
now, but maybe a little bit less than
what China has.
>> Are there any other companies that,
again, putting my investor hat on,
Huawei is a great example, Xiaomi is a
great example, Foxcon's a good example.
any other companies that you think are
the most interesting to study for people
that are interested in what's working so
well in China may want to go visit uh
you know one of their factories or
whatnot what are the what's the cannon
of the other couple companies that
should be studied in detail in addition
to the ones that we've talked about so
far
>> I would um love to get to know um better
company like Mwtoin which again is one
of these octopus-l like conglomerates um
when I visited Mtowin in um Beijing In
2018,
they told me, "We have about 50 core
business lines." And we went, "What?"
Um, you know, how can you have 50 core
business lines, but they I think they
really meant it. Um, they they really um
you know, there's a lot of managers and
they they're they're really intent on
making a lot of these different things
work. Um there is a great book about
Huawei written about um the company by
my friend Eva Doe, a former um reporter
uh with the Wall Street Journal, now a
reporter at the Washington Post called
House of Huawei released earlier this
year. I I endorsed it and I I think it
is really good and so I would like to
try to understand um you know companies
also better like um Alibaba um and BYD
as well as you know plenty of upand
cominging companies that I've never
heard of uh that um I think are working
in some pretty interesting things um
Deep Seek you know I think we we all of
these companies deserve much better
profiles than what the Chinese
government has allowed uh any reporters
or any writers um really to to to try to
have access. These companies generally
don't like to talk to uh foreigners at
the best of times and then you have an
overbearing state that in some cases
forbids deepseek from chatting with
foreigners. But if we can get, you know,
some real understanding of these
companies that would be amazing.
>> Do you think that that's in the cards?
Like do you think there's a version of
the world where those profiles are
really good for China if they're true
and honest and high access?
>> I think it would be great uh for China.
I want the US to be 20% more engineering
and I want China to be 50% more
lawyerly. I think that it would be
amazing if the Chinese state actually
respected um the creative impulses of
its own people. I think it would be
amazing if individual rights could
actually be respected. I think there's a
general Asian reticence towards real
press and you can see this also among
the Koreans as well as the Japanese. But
um you right now in this environment I
don't really see it in the cards because
the US and China are in some form of an
adversarial relationship. Maybe Donald
Trump will change that u once he visits
Beijing as um he's likely to do uh later
this year. Um I'm not really counting on
it. I think these two countries are
pretty adversarial and I don't see
either the Chinese state or the American
state really waking up one day and
deciding that we're going to trust the
other party and then we're going to be
friends.
>> I wouldn't ask you to give me a
probability or something of a hot war
because it's just too freaking hard.
It's too complicated. But if if your
life depended on creating that
probability, what are the variables that
you think will most influence whether or
not one happens? I think that, you know,
the flash points would be most likely uh
something over Taiwan. That's kind of
the obvious one. if the um Chinese ever
decide that their window is closing in
actually reunifying the island or in
their words liberating the island into
socialism either because the US is going
to be much more militarily strong, the
Taiwanese are going to be much more
militarily strong, there's some sort of
crisis in China, um then perhaps they
decide to move. Um right now I see the
status quo persisting because um the
status quo works well for the Chinese,
the Taiwanese and the Americans and but
if there's some big shift in strategic
calculations then that's always a sign
of nervousness. Um maybe there's a flash
point in the South China Sea which um
the Philippines and China right now have
really been ramming each other's ships
and the Philippines has historically
been a US protectorate, US ally. um you
know that could be a flash point in 2020
um shortly after the pandemic broke out
of Wuhan and the world was really
nervous about this respiratory virus.
You know, on top of this, the icing on
the cake was that there was a minor
border conflict between China and India
up way up in the Himalayans um which was
fatal for um you know, a number of
Chinese as well as uh Indian troops. And
China is surrounded by something like 25
countries. Um it just has a lot of
neighbors. Uh some of whom like North
Korea and Russia um are not very nice
and um they don't fully trust
themselves. And so maybe there is some
sort of a, you know, border conflict um
that erupts with one of China's near
neighbors. Um what I wouldn't uh think
is likely is for the Americans to try to
invade mainland China. I don't see that
the Chinese would try to seize Oregon.
What would they do with Oregon? um you
know it would be you know kind of a um
you know it would be some sort of a
conflict somewhere in the Pacific that
uh erupts into a a bigger a bigger war
and you know for something like Taiwan
that's not one of the things that really
keeps me up at night right now maybe it
could happen but um generally if you bet
on say on peace um that it's been a
pretty good bet and I expect that will
continue the scary things are some sort
of um you know totally unpredictable um
border conflict as we saw in 2020 with
India or something or some ship sinking
um with respect to the Philippines that
gets that escalates from there.
>> So you've been writing about China for a
long time. Uh your annual letters have
been some of my favorite things to read
for many many years. Your research too
back when you were doing that. In the
process of writing this specific book,
did your mind change in any major ways
or surprising ways?
Yeah, I think that I'm
feel
more strongly that China will be a tech
superpower as in the way that it
arguably already is. um mostly as I
wrote my chapter about Shinjzhin and
process knowledge and just really trying
to conceptualize Shinjzhin as an
ecosystem uh in which university
professors and VCs and factory managers
and workers are rubbing shoulders with
each other. They're solving a lot of new
problems every single day. Um they're
not necessarily affected by policies
from either Beijing or DC. And that gave
me this metaphor of a you know um engine
of technological momentum that I think
will not be derailed very easily because
a lot of these investments have been in
place for 10 years some for 15 years um
and there's no easy thing not export
controls um that will derail this tech
engine very easily and at the same time
I think I appreciated
how traumatic the um you know second
half of the 20th century has been for so
many Chinese. You know, you thought you
were done with the misrule of the Maui
years, um the famine of the great leap
forward, the total insanity of the
cultural revolution. Denialing comes
along. He starts to make everyone richer
through um reform and opening and then
he unleashes the one child policy which
I describe as a campaign of rural terror
meted out against overwhelmingly female
bodies uh in the countryside. This was
um you know something that I never quite
realized just how awful it was to so
many people. You know, you think of one
child and you know, that sounds like
nice and clean, but you don't associate
the, you know, 300 million abortions
that China conducted throughout this
period, 100 million sterilizations um
throughout this period. Um, you know,
tens of thousands of Chinese girls being
adopted by American couples um who um
are, you know, living here because their
parents had to give them up. Um and this
was also the time period when we were uh
when I was writing this period that my
wife suffered a miscarriage and it was
um exactly during this time when I was
you know writing about the traumas of
other female bodies that something like
that happened and so I think you know
I'm always trying to communicate that
China could be very powerful and it is
extremely capable
at the same time it is also so highly
capable not just technologically but
inflicting these traumas and horrors
upon the population and we can and
should recognize both of these things
that repression can grow worse while
technological dynamism uh grows richer.
So um and I'm always feel myself that
I'm have to fight this two-front war
against people who think that China will
collapse because of all the repression
or that because China's economic growth
has been so impressive and lifting so
many um you know millions of people out
of poverty that gives the communist
party a free pass on you know all of the
sorts of violations that it has
inflicted upon the people. I think we
can acknowledge both things are true
that the Communist Party has grown
repressive in more novel ways over the
past 10, 30 years. At the same time, it
has grown richer and more
technologically capable.
>> What a paradox.
>> Yeah. How do you think this book and
this experience will change your
relationship to China, the place, and
Chinese nationals more generally? And
and do was any part of it risky? Did it
feel risky to you to write the book
given you lived there for so long may
want to live there again in the future?
>> I decided over the course of writing
this book that I wanted to write the
truest story that I know and I decided
to just try to do the best job that I
possibly can. And part of the reason I
moved out of China to the Yale law
school where I substantially wrote this
book was in part to tear myself away
from the headlines um so that I don't
have to be living in Shanghai and feel
like I'm living through a lot of
headlines. Partly it is because the
Chinese state is overwhelmingly
sensorious. Um in China my personal site
danwan.co has been blocked. Um, I found
that uh to my surprise and some degree
of distress uh one day in 2022,
I had to go see the Canadian Council
General to ask whether I needed to leave
in a hurry. Um, because usually they
block big sites like the New York Times
or Facebook or Wikipedia, not rinky dink
websites like mine. And you know, I have
friends in China who have been detained
by the Chinese state uh arbitrarily for
a number of years. um based on who they
were and um based on alleged activities
that um we we don't believe are true.
And I've decided that um you know, I
wasn't going to give in to any sort of
hard censorship or soft. Um there's a
wonderful analogy about China's
censorship by a psyologist named Perry
Link called the anaconda and the
chandelier. So imagine that if we're
sitting around a dinner table, um you
know, all of us are chatting over
dinner. Um the censorship isn't
necessarily very direct, but above us
hangs a chandelier in which a giant
anaconda lies sleeping. And you never
really know when the anaconda might um
wake up and decide to strangle you. Um
but you're kind of just aware that the
anaconda is there and you start
self-censoring yourself in all sorts of
ways. and I decided I didn't need to
live in China and um have that. Now I
wonder uh whether the Chinese state will
like my book. I try to write the truest
story as I can which meant capturing the
successes as well as the traumas um of
the Chinese state. And um I what I plan
to do is um when um in a couple of
months from now when I submit my visa
application, they'll have some time to
think about it. They'll have had time to
react to my book. No surprises if they
give me a visa to go to my favorite uh
city in the world, Shanghai, my favorite
region of the world, southeast,
southwest China, um along with all those
wonderful mountains and wonderful
pickles and bowls of noodles in Gujo, I
would be delighted to visit and if they
do not give me a visa, then I cannot
visit. And so, um I think my life is
really quite simple.
>> What's next for you? What what having
completed this really epic project that
I think will be the def you know seen as
the definitive account of what's going
on in China visit the US for a long
time. What what do you do next?
>> Uh curl up on my couch and read some
great novels. Uh everyone's reading
Middle March. Uh I haven't read read
Middle March yet. Uh so that that is
something that's quite exciting for me.
I want to be engaged with the broader
Chinese diaspora. um people who have
decided to move to Thailand. There's a
set of um people who've moved to New
York and they host feminist standup
comedy um in Mandarin and I want to be
supportive of these sorts of efforts. Um
the sort of engineers I know in Silicon
Valley. I want to help uh integrate them
um into society and you know help them
appreciate the good parts of America
that I enjoy the most. um if there's
anything that they um can't necessarily
uh access very easily, I want to be
helpful in trying to give them a little
bit of community. Um and then otherwise
um as I always do uh think big thoughts
and then write them down in my letters.
>> The closing question I ask everybody is
the same. What is the kindest thing that
anyone's ever done for you? There's a
quote I really like from Ursula Kain
which is that love is not like a stone
which only sits there. Love has to be
continuously made like a bread and
remade once again. And that's something
I think about with uh something like
kindness. It is um I think we can sub in
kindness for love here. That the way
that I think about kindness is not uh
only a single act. I think it is uh more
a disposition and a a spirit of
generosity. So um I brought up before
earlier um Tyler Cowan who has been a
mentor of mine for over the past decade.
We've traveled together in Asia. We've
traveled together in Yingan and Taiwan.
We've gone to the opera together here in
New York. We've seen a great bronze
concert here in New York. And Tyler has
been very generous in helping me orient
um and um tweak my uh thinking and
giving me uh some degree of ambition
because that is something that Tyler is
really good at, raising people's
ambitions at crucial times. And because
I bring up Ursula K, Ursula Crober
Leguin, I have to think about uh my
other guru Arthur Crober um who is the
founder of GCO trackomics. We were
having uh lunch once in the near the end
of 2016 when he told me about made in
China 2025, a big industrial plan which
I hadn't heard of at the time. And then
a few months afterwards, I moved to Hong
Kong to work for Goffcow Dragons. And
shortly after that, two years after
that, I moved to Beijing. And then I
moved to Shanghai. Two hours from now,
I'm going to go to Arthur's home for a
book launch party, which um he is uh
very kindly hosting for me. And I find
Arthur not only very wise about China,
but very wise about all things. And so
um for me, kindness is um an an act that
has to be uh performed again and again.
This is something I want to try to do
for other younger people, but to have
these sort of long-lasting relationships
in which we try to um help each other,
help mentor each other, guide each
other, and raise our ambitions at
crucial periods.
>> A beautiful closing definition. I've
never heard never heard that quote
despite having read many of her books.
Wonderful place to close. Dan, thank you
so much for your time.
>> Thank you very much, Patrick.
[Music]